>> David Khourshid: All right, well,
I hope that you all enjoyed this
Frontend Masters state workshop.
And learned a lot of principles,
techniques and patterns that you could use
in not only your React applications, but
basically any other front end application,
or even backend,
to improve the way that you manage states.
And to improve the way that you
make your code understandable and
easy to maintain and update,
especially as it scales.
Again, scale isn't about lines of code or
millions of users or things like that.
Instead, scale is about how
quickly can you iterate on
your code base as the number
of features increase or
get more complex, and
how maintainable is your code base,
especially as you add
more team members and
you introduce new tools and
new techniques into your code.
So we learned a lot today.
We went through anti patterns,
just common things that you could
avoid in React applications.
We talked about principles like diagrams
and how things like entity relationship
diagrams, sequence diagrams and
state machines are not only useful for
databases or server side applications,
but also for front end applications.
We did a lot of work on refactoring
things into using finite ST states and
reducers and we talked about how
we could reduce the amount of code
that we write by just using the native
form data API with forms and
using server actions with React
19 using the URL for state so
that we could persist the state, and
also using third party data fetching
libraries like Tanstack Query or
React Query so that we could really
simplify all of those use states and
use effects that we used before.
We talked about some painful things
like the chaining cascading effects that
caused so many problems and how we
could use event driven architecture and
reducers to really reduce
the number of effects that we use.
And we talked about other useful
things such as using third party state
management libraries,
normalizing your data so
that it is easier to work with
the Use Sync external store hook, and
of course testing your application
logic at the very end.
So I hope that you all got
a lot from this workshop.
Remember, nothing in here is dogmatic.
You don't have to refactor your
entire applications after this.
Instead I want all of these to
be tools in your toolbox so
that you could simplify your state or
make it easier to create
new features and
just detect problems before they happen.
So thank you all very much.